# Contributing to MediaTester

First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute!

The following is a set of guidelines for contributing to MediaTester.

#### Table Of Contents

[How Can I Contribute?](#how-can-i-contribute)
  * [Adding a Language Translation](#adding-a-language-translation)

## How Can I Contribute?

### Adding a Language Translation

If you would like to request or provide a language translation, first search the [issues](https://github.com/dkrahmer/MediaTester/issues) to see if there is an existing request.
If you cannot find an issue related to the language you are interested in, go ahead and create a new issue.

#### Steps to add a New Language Translation to the Windows GUI Application

1. Create a fork of the git repo then create a feature branch in your fork.
2. Open the solution in Visual Studio 2019.
3. Add a new language entry to Languages.cs. This makes it show up on the drop-down list.
4. Update text on the Main form.
	1. Open the Main form by double-clicking Main.cs.
	2. Click on the top of the Main form then open the properties.
	3. Change the Language property from "(Default)" to the language you want to add.
		- Be sure to select only the language without the additional country designation in parentheses.
	4. Make a single change to a label then save to verify a new "Main.??.resx" file is created.
		- Any changes made to the form apply to the active language only.
	5. Copy the default values
		- Open Main.resx
		- Sort by name then select all rows that do not start with ">>"
		- Copy with Ctrl-c
		- Open the new Main.??.resx (Expand Main.cs)
		- Delete any rows that were added automatically (ignore any errors about modifying)
		- Select the first row (String1) then paste with Ctrl-v
		- Change all the default values to the new translated values.
    6. You may edit text in the designer view or the Main.??.resx grid view.
		- You may adjust sizes of text containers if necessary but try to choose translations that fit in the same size space if possible to prevent layout complications later.
		- Make sure all text is translated, including tooltip values.
5. Update text values used in code.
	1. Add a new Language resource file.
		- Right-click the MediaTesterGui project > Add > New Item... > Resource File
		- Name the file Strings.??.resx, where ?? is the two character ISO 639-1 code for the language. Use the same code from the file generated by the Main form.
		- Click: Add
    2. Copy the default strings
		- Open Strings.resx
		- Sort by name then select all rows by pressing Ctrl-a
		- Copy with Ctrl-c
		- Open the new Strings.??.resx
		- Select the first row (String1) then paste with Ctrl-v
    3. Edit the string values for the new language then save.
		- Do not change any variable names contained in curly braces. i.e. ```{TotalBytesVerified}```
		- Use Shift-Enter to add a line break.
6. Be sure to test your changes to ensure the new language looks good and makes sense in context then submit a pull request!
	- Do not commit changes that VS makes to Main.Dessigner.cs or Main.resx - Changes to these files for a new language are benign and make merging messy.
	- Tag your language issue by including #?? in the PR description, where ?? is the issue number.
